What is the difference between replications and partitions?
In Kafka each topic are partitioned across multiple nodes in a cluster, in order to enable growth of certain topic
beyond any limitations of one node. To identify certain message within partition each message has unique identifier
called offset. In order to find a message across the cluster, each message is identified by tuple consisting of
message topic, partition and aforementioned offset within partition.
To achieve fault tolerance, replications of partitions are created across the cluster. These replications are copies of
original partition and are kept to avoid data loss in case of the failure of the leader. Each of partition has leader,
which handles read and write request for the partition, and some or zero followers, which passively follows the state
of a leader. Consequently leader and followers have the same state of the partition. If the leader fails, one of the
followers will automatically become leader instead and proceed with
processing a task.

Source: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27150925/what-is-difference-between-partition-and-replica-of-a-topic-in-kafka-cluster

What is Zookeeper’s role in the Kafka cluster? Why do we need a separate entity for this? max 50
Zookeeper is used to provide flexible synchronization within distributed systems and store its naming and
configuration data. It is used for controller election, configuration of the topics, access control lists and the
membership of the cluster.
We need separate entity for these purposes because it ensures coordination of all brokers within cluster.

Source: https://www.cloudkarafka.com/blog/2018-07-04-cloudkarafka_what_is_zookeeper.html

Why does Kafka by default not guarantee exactly once delivery semantics on producers? max 100
Kafka to try achieve exactly once delivery semantics, sets unique producer id (PID) to every new producer, and
sequence numbers for Kafka messages.
Sequence number, which initially start from 0, for certain producer gets incremented with every message sent to the broker.
If the sequence number is not exactly one greater than the last committed message from the PID/TopicPartition tuple.
Messages with the lower sequence number are duplicate errors,which can be ignored, whereas larger will in
out-of-sequence error, which means that some message have been lost, and is fatal.
Main problem here is that new instance of a producer has new unique PID, so exactly once semantics can be guaranteed
within single producer session.

FML(116 word)

Source: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-98+-+Exactly+Once+Delivery+and+Transactional+Messaging#KIP-98-ExactlyOnceDeliveryandTransactionalMessaging-IdempotentProducerGuarantees
        https://www.confluent.io/blog/exactly-once-semantics-are-possible-heres-how-apache-kafka-does-it/


1. On average, how many bytes per second does the stream transformer have to consume? How many does it produce?
TODO: Describe how you did it.
On average we get about 27 messages per second, key and string is 34 bytes for both key and value(19 for name).
Tuples that are decremented per second are the same as the tuples that are being processed per second. Size of Long is 8 bytes.
Incoming: number_of_messages_per_sec * Bits for key and name:  27 * 34 =918

Bytes produced: name_size + count_size )*(message_incoming+message_decreasing)  (19+8)* 43*2 =2322

3. Given that the histogram is stored in a Kafka StateStore, how would you extract the top 100 topics? Is this eficient?

As KafkaStateStore is distributed and in key-value format there exist no ready to use methods to sort this data structure.
To make it possible we can create every certain period of time a spare key value data structure. We would firstly
transform initial data structure into list of tuples ordered by count and extract only first 100. After that we could
create from this extracted list of tuples again key-value structure. Unfortunately, this solution would not be efficient,
however,
As more efficient solution we could firstly create list of 1000 most common topics, and update count of this elements on the spot.
For extracting 100 most popular topic we would have extract the subset from 1000 most common topics in aforementioned manner.
Every more significant period, like 15 minutes, we could regenerate 1000 most common topics to keep up to date.
In our opinion this solution can consume less resources.

5. What are the two ways you can scale your Kafka implementation over multiple nodes?

One way to scale our solution is to start another instance of stream processing application on other machine in a cluster.
Machines will become aware of each other existence and will start sharing processing work.
Other way to scale our application is to increase number of consumers and producers. By doing so, we exploit the fact that topics can be easily partitioned.
Thanks to that we can write and read to and from the same topic on multiple discs, which consequently will avoid I/O bottleneck.

